#title Our stories? Their stories?
#layout post
#date 2007/06/20
#category Agile

Working with customers as an agile consultant in these days, I found
that using agile software development practices to manage this
consulting project works very well. By turning training, coaching and
implementation works into stories and plan with customers, utilizing
various best practices such as standup, retrospective etc. that we
have been always doing in our software projects, we have made our work
transparent to the customers and our planning very adaptable and
responsive. A group of customers from different projects are a part of
our project team. They acts as customers and project team members as
well.

One issue that I found recently is about some coaching and
implementation stories. For those kinds of job we have to work with
our customer people for a period of time, and they usually have their
own daily job to do. Our customers have already used stories to
represent the requirement so they have their stories to finish. At the
beginning I felt that we are interrupt their working and sometimes
they do not have time to work with us on our coaching or
implementation stories. We are like sort of external forces not
belonging to their projects. I am not saying our customers are unlike
to work with us, on the contrary they are very willing to work with
us. The problem is just that we were not involved into their projects
though we have involved our customers into our consulting project.

Things started going well after we turn our stories into their
stories.  For everything we have to work with them, we try to create a
story in their project and the people who are assigned to that story
will have dedicated time to work with us, which also improved
communication between us and customers.
